CVE-2019-0001 - THIS IS your life
you will be glad to know, i dont have slides, i dont have a whiteboard - but i do have post it notes!  dont worry - you dont have to do anything - well, it would be better if you would help out by telling me where to put them, but you dont even have to do that - although if noone says anything then its just me waffling on for 30m! .

so then CVE 2019 0001 - this is your life, da daaa da daaa daaa

What i wanted to do with this talk was to walk you through the life of a vulnerability. from start to finish, but we arent just gonna do 2019 0001, we will do a couple because i wanted to illustrate the different flows and journeys these things can take. 

SO, lets write cve 2019 0001 on this first post it note. IF the wall behind me is the timeline, starting from about here and going to about here - where do we think the assignment of the CVE number should be? why

discussion

right then, so what leads up to that CVE number being assigned? in the case of 2019 0001, this was a bug in junipers MX series appliance, with a process called the broadband edge subscriber daemon, so how about lets write something went wrong on a post it note? where shall we put that? discussion

so in this case the vendor advisory states that the problem occurred during product usage, and that probably means that a customer somewhere had this product and that it went wrong. They called Juniper TAC and raised a support case, and that lead to juniper investigating, reproducing the problem and recognising it as a vulnerability. SO - we could have customer buys product. pin to board, customer has problem with product - next to problem one above. customer calls vendor - lets have one for that, after problem, vendor investigates and then starts working on a patch - where does that go? in parallel with the cve number perhaps? 

patch can be released after the cve, as the cve number can be reserved with no details on it. Once the patch is out there then depending how bad the vulnerability is the vendor might not publicise it. FOr instance, there was a Cisco ASA bug which was so bad that they just patched it and kept the disclosure under wraps to give people a chance to upgrade without drawing attention to the fact that something really bad was in the patch - because that leads to RE. 

So , 20190001 - this one - it was found by a customer in a production environment and reported to juniper who patched it in software. DId the exploit writers have a go at this one? well the cvss score says there is no exploit, so it appears not. Obviously, thats to the best available information we have, so we cannot definately say but it appears not. The thing though with this one would be, this was a crash which has been patched without anyone knowing about it, so as an exploit writer, its an issue most people would have fixed already - wheres the incentive? also, its only a dos, so i can in limited circumstances use it to cause a service outage so meh really - why bother? keep writing excel macro exploits, at least you can have some fun with them! 


so thats how its supposed to work - just bbefore we move on - i wanted to touch on reverse engineering and the other end of the scale. We mentioned above that sometimes (rarely) vendors might bury disclosure of a CVE to prevent actors reverse engineering. So what that means is that once a patch is released for a bug, you can work out what that patch changed and start to look for the problem in the older version, which could mean you could build an exploit for an unpatched system. But, the drawback to this is that you have to be really skilled to do it and its a lot of work to exploit something which has actually been fixed, therefore its got to be a really juicy bug or you have to be confident that people arent going to patch in a reasonable time. 


ok, lets talk about another scenario? 

There is a whole eco system where people get paid for finding bugs with popular things. you can make a living as a bug hunter, and typically the rules are - if you find a thing and the company with which that thing exists has a bug bounty programme, if you can reproduce that thing (create a poc) then you can get paid for your efforts. So, how do those guys start?

fuzzing
auditing the code
trying to do stuff its not supposed to do
making an educated guess about when something doesnt work quite right, why that might be????

lets call that vulnerability research and lets put that <post it note>

really clever researchers will find a new bug class, automate the exploitation of it and then sign up to all the bug bounties and strip out this new bug across them all. People have made millions like this. clever people

just before you all quit your jobs and go off finding bug bounty programmes to join - 
sandbox escaper - responsible disclosure taking ages, being very frustrating so just drops it on twitter. in that case vendor hears about it and would validate, start work on a patch and then apply for a cve - this is a 0day. 

One other scenario which i wanted to quickly cover and thats code review. So if you make a thing then you can either review your code by hand or by making it open source, or you can use automated code scanning tools to find and flag errors which you should fix. these vulns get acknowledged and patched by vendors usually without getting exploited. 

the point being - the assignment of a cve is near the end of the life of the vulnerability because its known about then, someone has acknowledged it and is working on a fix. 

just as an aside, just because something is vulnerable - doesnt mean that its exploitable. Anyone got an idea what percentage of vulnerabilities are actually exploitable? 23%

77% of vulns never get exploited. 